We were talking about the second method course
that we have and I was telling you that in that one we
cover about five, six different topics and one is
the land use transportation methods and it's a
little perhaps mathematical and theoretical but
the intention is that to cover the concepts which
would be helpful for planners to understand the
urban and especially the regional area. By
regional, I mean like Dallas-Fort Worth region. I
don't mean big regions like Texas, etc. And I found
out that that is very much helpful for planners to
go through that exposition to understand all
those theories. And then another topic of
importance is evaluation we go through the
basically cost benefit type of things and we have
exercises to do and in fact the planning related
exercise to go through I think that's very
important for them to basically to be exposed to
Then we have population and employment
projection methods, which I think any planner
should be able to do rough calculation of the
projection of what's going to happen in the
future. Do you use cohort? The cohort survival and
also the trend analysis of linear trend, curve
linear trends, etc. Their formulation, how to do
it. In fact, there is an assignment for them to do
that, to do these type of things. Do they do it by
hand, or do they use a computer program? No, in this
course, no computer. Computer is mostly in the
statistics course, and they do basically... I
have cut all the proofs, et cetera, in the
statistics course, as basically to... I'm
presenting them where... the conceptual things
that in my mind they need to know but there are five
major computer assignments that they put
together data and basically starting from the
simplest one they do one by one and get to the
regression assignment which is the most complex
one and then we repeat the regression assignment
also in the second method course as just the review
just again because of my own view that I think
regression is the most applied and close to
planning and can be applied and they put together
some planning related one in the second course and
basically do that here they learn both a major
statistical package computer package both
courses I mean and also they go and apply that so
hopefully they're gonna become efficient with
that but then rest of the course all the
assignments are manual like that population
projection one is a manual one and then the
evaluation one which is a major development case
in the downtown and they're going to evaluate to
see if does it work to make to basically build it it
is for cities like a parking structure or
something a feasibility study basically to see is
it beneficial for them to they have a piece of land
and they're gonna see that if it is good for them to
build a big parking structure public parking or
would be better for them to sell to someone else to
make an office building or whatever something
like that but there's so many issues involved like
transportation they have a rail system coming and
the benefit of putting a parking here versus
reducing the rail, transit riders, etc. Then we
have overview of shift and share and input output,
those type of regional economic analysis that I
thought the concepts is necessary for them. We
have review of linear programming in a sense that
linear programming in some senses are exactly
planning because you want to maximize the
benefits to the society under given such
constants, and that is basically the definition
of planning. And then you have a methodology that
basically does that. Again, we don't want to make
them applied linear programmers or something. We
just want them to know that there is such a concept
very similar to planning and a basic mathematical
concept that can be done. There are a bunch of these
type of small methods. I have written a small
paper, which unfortunately I haven't been able to
publish that. We're basically going through my
philosophy of the method courses for planning. If
you are interested, I can provide you with a copy.
Yeah, I'd like that very much. I used to teach the
course in methods and techniques at A&M.
So here is another architect teaching. It was a
course that I came to enjoy, but I was backed into it
because no one else wanted to teach it. And so I had
to become familiar with demographic forecasting
and different economic-based theories and
whatnot. And then, of course, we got computers in
our department. Everybody thought that we should
get computerized in that course. which I was
reluctant to do because I felt that the students
should know how to do this by hand, and that
particularly with the cohort survival
technique, that they might lose one of the
essential attributes of the technique in not
cranking in changes in migration rates by cohort
or survival rates or whatever, and that they would
just simply punch a button and the computer would
assume everything would stay the same and it would
grind out numbers, which is exactly what happened
after I was almost forced to go to computer on it by
outside pressures in the department. So it
happened, and I predicted it would, and I think
that it was a mistake to do that. the computers to be
used at all, I think it should be at the end of the
semester where it's a hands-on sort of thing and
the students are required to make changes in
migration rights and birth and death rates and so
forth. cohort and by time increment. You know, I
don't use computer in that course exactly for,
partly for that reason and partly because up to now
there is no good packages available to do that, to
do gravity model, to do land use model, etc. And
even if become available, I guess that would be
another course that, OK, we covered the theory.
Now let us go and do applied in the computer.
Personally, I don't want to spend time of learning
those computer things. Every day, they are
changing all these packages. But I guess if ever I
was forced to do the same way, I'd have to do
something about it. I think for us as the planners,
it's more important to understand the concepts.
And if we really need to use it, we can always go
ahead and learn the packages. And especially that
nowadays, they try to put the packages in a way that
one can learn by himself. So they can go and learn it
and apply it. Taking a look at the future of
planning education in Texas, do you see any
changes in the whole system of having three
certified programs?
You know, I know that we have three programs which
may look a little small for such a big state. But on
the other hand, I believe that none of the schools
has been too big to justify any other program. As
far as I know, all three programs have had only a
handful of students. Am I right? I think so. Well,
we usually have, at any one time, around 65 to 70
enrolled. In master program or? Well, in all three
degree programs. We have the Master of Science in
Land Development, the MUP, and the PhD. But if you
put the PhD separate, and perhaps in the land
development a little bit separate, you are going
to have about 40, am I right? 40 is not, I mean, 40 you
and perhaps about 30, 40... If we stay with 40 that
we are now, it would be 120. And I remember coming
from Los Angeles area, in Los Angeles alone, there
were three, four planning programs. Each one of
them, at least UCLA and USC, I believe, had about
50, 60 each. And then there was Cal Poly program
that had 150 students or something. Pomona one.
And then there was that private school I forgot
which the name of the program wasn't directly
planning, it was something like public
administration. Pepperdine? Pepperdine. They
had some students there too. So one metropolitan
area almost having twice of all our students. So in
some sense I don't think that we need more schools,
at least for now. But on the other hand, I believe
that this growth which happened in Texas happened
so fast that so many of the communities couldn't
realize that they needed planners to handle that.
But now that the wave is gone and they have seen how
much mistakes they have done, hopefully they
realize that they have done mistakes. Some of them
I'm sure they won't realize. Some of them are
realizing now and they are starting to hire or to
feel that gradually they need to have such staff
there. So I feel that gradually, very slowly, the
demand for planners is going to increase a little
bit, at least in the public sector, especially in
cities and counties, et cetera. if that trend is
correct then perhaps we're going to have a little
bit more demand but that doesn't to me that doesn't
mean that we're going to have 100 students each or
something means that we're going to move from 40 to
50 because we are talking about stable type of
situations but in regard to what area we'll need to
cover for those things. Of course, one area is just
dealing with the growth and managing the urban
areas, because it is traditional in Texas that so
many areas have just used to manage the urban areas
without planning, or even without zoning, as the
case of Houston, etc. And gradually, I think,
these things would, the wave has started, of
course, years ago to come from west and east to
here. And if we consider that trend, we're going to
see that more cities are going to have formal
planning organizations or counties. So there is a
need in that side to be fulfilled. I think we have a
mission to teach actual practice of planning in
terms of physical planning, that they go and do it.
On the other hand, there are all the new areas of
planning, which has been, I don't know, the output
of, say, 60s and 70s. And perhaps in some regions,
it's starting to come down and semi-die off. Some
of those ways are going to come here, like social
planning a little bit, or I don't know, other
health planning. other discussions which may not
be directly a core area of planning or physical
planning or so and those I think being already
discovered by different communities and
organizations even private sector one as we were
talking real estate etc I think there is also
demand there that we got to try to fulfill those so
overall the way I see planning here and I think that
we should gear up to train people for both of those,
both the public side, which is the actual physical
planning side, but also the other social and art
things.
We have one student that graduated with a clear
idea of going into institutional planning.
I didn't quite know what he meant by that. I don't
know what you're talking about. But what he wanted
to do was actually restructure organizations
and to look at them from an effectiveness point of
view. And he started out in the New Orleans school
district. So there are all sorts of little niches
that people can move into. The question that has
come up with Paul that perhaps the three
accredited schools can't teach every specialty
and that maybe we ought to get together and
identify what the needs of Texas are. And then
separate the area. And then who has what kinds of
current capabilities and then draw some
conclusions from that. And we already have a
cooperative agreement with the University of
Texas at Austin. And that, frankly, is on paper
only. It doesn't seem to be functioning very well.
Which is what? Pardon? Which is what? That a
student can take a course at the University of
Texas If it is similar to what offered at A&M, they
can take it, for example, during the summertime if
they are in an internship there. And we can include
it in their degree program for credit at A&M, which
seems only logical. But logic does not prevail in
academia. Yeah, especially by the way of funding.
I don't know how is your funding system, but I
believe it would be very similar to ours.
Eventually, we are one type of system, I think. If
you are going to create ours, you've got to
naturally try to keep all the created ours for
yourself, and that would create the problem.
Sure. So it's a problem. We ran into all sorts of red
tape with this one particular student. Not all of
it because of the institutional arrangements,
some of it was because of the enthusiasm of the
student in moving ahead of the ability of the
organizational structure to handle it. But these
sorts of things can be worked out, it seems to me.
And not that I think that there's an advantage of
having multiple schools and planning. And I also
think that UT Arlington is geographically
situated the best of any of them. Yeah, because the
other one is in Austin, and there's nothing in
Houston. You are the closest one to Houston. Well,
Texas Southern. But they are not accurate. Do they
have a planning program? Essentially no longer.
That, it's... predominantly Negro college, and
John Shanahan taught there for a while, but he's no
longer with them.
Are there any thoughts that you want to include
that we haven't already touched on? Not really at
this moment. Just come to my mind later. Okay,
well, you'll be getting a transcript of this
whenever It's completed. Sure. And then you can go
over it again and make any notations you wish.
Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you.
This is June 19, 1987. We are in the office of Dr.
Joel Goldstein at the University of Texas in
Arlington. Joel, let's begin with your
background, your education, your first
professional work, and then how it came that you
landed at Arlington. Let's go back in history. I
was an undergraduate to a bachelor's degree in
architecture from the University of
Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. and was an
assistant for a number of planning professors and
courses, a work assistant as an undergraduate.
Got interested in planning, took planning
courses, had joint studios with Paul Davidoff and
Ian McCarr and a bunch of others. Was Myerson there
then? Yes. Everybody was there. Dykman, Wheaton.
Yes. The golden era. Right. The golden era. I got
interested in planning and knew that I wasn't
going to... What was the date you got your
architecture degree? June 1963. And it was... I
knew that I wasn't going to just be an architect
with my professional planning degree. I was going
to get a professional planning degree someday or
other. And I ended up working and practicing and
getting licensed in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
first. I'm taking the licensing exam for New
Jersey, no reciprocity across the river. I take
the exam all over again. I'm licensed in New Jersey
as an architect, and I look for graduate schools.
It was after about six years of practice in
Philadelphia.
Okay. And ended up looking at schools and ended up
getting a master's in urban design at Washington
University in St. Louis, spending about a year
there on campus, and then went for a couple of years
to Tulsa, Oklahoma to run a community design
center in a black neighborhood in a low-income
Indian neighborhood in Tulsa for a couple of
years. What year was that? That was 1969-70.
And during that time, I lived in Tulsa, worked at
the design center, and commuted to Stillwater
three days a week for classes, other classes I was
responsible for as a faculty member. And worked in
Citizens Action there, and then more or less had a
better offer in Detroit and went on the faculty of
the University of Detroit. as an associate
professor, jumping rank from assistant to
associate. And at the same time, worked in the
profession as second in charge of architectural
design and chief planner for Giffles Associates
in Detroit, the third largest AE firm in the world.
Flew all around the country doing projects while I
was on the faculty. at the University of Detroit,
teaching planning, urban design, and
architecture. Sounds like a good combination.
Yeah, it was for a couple of years, and then I took my
PhD while I was doing all of that. And ended up,
about the five years I was in Detroit, the last
three years, not teaching at University of
Detroit, but just doing my PhD in Giffles
Associates. and got my PhD at Michigan State
University, East Lansing, in urban and regional
planning with cognate areas in social psychology
and political science, social change, studying
psychology and psychometric, psychological
statistics. Strange combination. So you moved
away from physical design. Totally into this
social planning. Then I
was offered the job here to come in as the first
director of the planning program in the School of
Architecture. Probably in 1975,
fall of 1975, as their first director of the
planning program. the new planning program here
at UT Arlington. That's when we met. Right.
And one thing, as an inexperienced planning
professor
at this school, inexperienced with Texas, I began
to learn and practice in my spare time when I wasn't
involved with university duties.
Dallas-Fort Worth and big projects around the
country.
Taking a look at the program here, what would you
say are its strong points and its weak points?
Strong ones first. Definite strong points is its
balanced balanced emphasis towards development
and
cities. In other words, the social aspects, the
residents, are not seen as black hats or white
hats. The developers are not seen as black hats or
white hats. Both sides seem to be taught by the
faculty as being equally as important. The
balance is there. Number two, I think that the
strong point is that as a commuting school, the
only one in the region that we know of, by region I
mean broad, let's say six, seven, eight state
regions, where are primarily a commuting school,
a night program. And that's a strength because in
the tight times of planning jobs in this almost 12
years that I've been here, it has given students an
opportunity to enroll in a planning program, get
their first job while a student, and graduate with
two or three years experience by the time they
finish their coursework and they've graduated.
So they're already working in their job when they
graduate. Or they're moving to their second job
with two or three years experience. So I think
that's very strong. Yeah, it has benefits in the
classroom, too. Yes, it does. There's lots of war
stories that get told. And there's a lot of
networking that the students do between each
other in the classroom. The disadvantages are the
same thing. Those commuting students are tired
from having worked all day. They come in the
classroom at night, 7 o'clock at night. Many of
them can't keep their head up because they've been
studying hard the nights before in preparation
for classwork. And you can't go as late as you'd
like. What about the faculty? Faculty are sleepy,
too. Demands on the faculty. Faculty, if you teach
two nights a week, which is our typical teaching
load, until 10.30 at night, from 7 to 10.30, the
pressures, the social pressures of the job are to
be in your office all during the day. And if you're
not in in the morning, the other faculty kind of
wander. So there's a lot of pressure, so you end up
with a lot of unproductive time because you're so
physically tired. It is not the ideal academic
situation. It's great for students. It's been
great for students. The way the economy is, it's
been bad for faculty. In
terms of the substance of the curriculum here in
your Master of City and Regional Planning degree,
How do you feel that this compares with other
master's degrees in planning around the
countryside?
I would say that a number of schools we've heard
about, your side, not with checking, they have
their actual, any kind of, running any actual
testing of their graduates or anything. appears
many of them are just social welfare planning
oriented programs. Some of the others are
strictly public agency training kinds of
programs as a result of accreditation
guidelines. I think where we kind of have
succeeded over the years is that we're trying to
train people to go into real estate and land
development jobs as well as consulting jobs in
addition to the public sector traditional
planning jobs. And because of the job market the
way it is in the metro area, the job opportunities
have existed. And we have a number of students that
have entered our program and worked for major
developers, major national developers.
Dallas-Fort Worth has the advantage of having
some the most major development companies in the
United States and Canada here. So it's been a
confluence of real estate and land development
dollars for the United States. They've spilled in
here from Germany, from Canada, bounce in Dallas,
Fort Worth, and then spill over into Houston,
California, to Chicago. So there's been a
bouncing effect. So there's been an opportunity
for our students to get to work for the banking
community, the financial institutions, as well
as the real estate and land development
community. So that the planning accreditation
guidelines of having this public sector base
begins to get broadened through the way that we've
been teaching in our classes.
There's no doubt about it, your location is very
advantageous for an urban planner. certainly
much better than Austin or College Station. Next
year you are facing the visiting team from the
Accreditation Committee of APA.
Recently we underwent such an examination and it
resulted in some changes in our core curriculum.
Do you anticipate any such changes to your
curriculum or structure?
I would say the curriculum has been just worked on
over the past two or three years in creating a new
program that was just initiated about a year ago. I
don't think that any fault will be found in the new
program by the accreditation team. I think there
may be some structural changes according to the
way the planning program has been administered in
to the Institute of Urban Studies that go
negatively to the guidelines for accreditation.
Well then it might help the program quite a bit by
having the outside comments.
I believe so. Politically I don't really wish to
elaborate on that. Okay, we'll go on to another
topic. Regarding the future of Texas and
particularly planning for the future in Texas, do
you see any changes in the offing in regard to
planning education to meet any possible changes?
I think the most critical thing today is learning
to effectively infiltrate citizens groups to
create behavioral change, that planning is being
stopped by residents. Any kind of change is being
affected. City budgets are being affected by
residents. The not in my backyard syndrome is
rampant with all the displacees that have come
here to make their fortunes, to live in the
Dallas-Fort Worth area and into Texas. People are
settling in. And I think that it's almost going to
have to be for the same kind of citizens' action
kinds of activities by planners into the 90s, the
1990s, that are going to be very similar to the 60s
of the years of social planning, social welfare
planning, for opposite reasons. A rebirth of
advocacy planning? Not advocacy, but let's say
reverse advocacy planning. in favor of
pro-development in order for people to be able to
get through the economic conditions of the times.
In other words, I see fiscal stress due to a federal
deficit, budget deficit, and people having less
and less discretionary income. As a result of
that, they can very well benefit by planning, by
having sound fiscal planning that is through
effective pro-development postures being to
their ultimate advantage, that planning on the
basis of what people want for them, they may not,
they need to be led to what they should have through
professionalism, more of an elitist attitude,
but yet through a participatory mode. It's
interesting. Paul Geisel, in answer to that
question, felt that planning had resurrected its
good name, which came to me as a surprise because I
think that in our area of Texas and College Station
and East Central Texas, planning is still a dirty
word. But he felt that in the Metroplex area, that
because of citizen participation and citizen
planning of neighborhoods, that planning had
again become quite a
positive force and had achieved a new degree of
respect.
I think there's a respect there, but I think the
respect is there on the part of the local elected
officials who are running all the land use
decision-making, because they can hide behind it
effectively from a legal perspective and make
their own self-interest decisions. So I think
that's where planning may be considered
resurrected in the minds of the elected
officials. As far as actual planning goes, I think
not. I think that they're clearly doing
themselves in with exclusionary planning and
exclusionary zoning without planning. Without
planning, yes, which is conceptually an
unacceptable procedure. Absolutely. they
certainly wouldn't be able to get away with that in
Oregon, where planning has mattered. Or
Michigan, or Wisconsin, or Florida,
Pennsylvania, which isn't as strong as other
states, and on and on, Tennessee.
Planning has been very undeveloped in Texas. And
you can see it and you can feel it when you operate in
the arena of planning. It's clear. It's been
undeveloped. There's been no traditional
planning that I can put my finger on except for Fort
Worth, Texas. Fort Worth has had the tradition
because it's been almost like a city of beautiful
activity by the elite who have been dilettantes in
the planning since the 54 Victor Gruen plant and
going back even earlier than that. I haven't
written about Fort Worth yet, but I have written
about El Paso. And El Paso's planning program got
started in 1919. And they've been doing it ever
since. In fact, there's a question about whether
or not their city council was the first in the
country to adopt a comprehensive plan that was
professionally formulated. One usually thinks
that this happened in 1925 in, was it Cincinnati? I
think it was Cincinnati. With Bettman? Yes, with
Bettman and others. And the question I'm going to
have to research is the exact date on which all city
councils took action. Because it might be that El
Paso, we might have to rewrite history. When I
first began here in 1975, the dean was Dean Hal Box,
who was an architect and was in practice in Dallas
with the two others. Architectural.
Architectural practice. And Hal Box was dean for
approximately a year during my time to a year and a
half, I forget exactly which, but sometime either
fall of 76 or spring of 77 he left to become dean of UT
Austin. At that time an acting dean, or interim
dean, was George Wright, for about a year or two,
and they had a search, and the university selected
George Wright to be the new dean. George Wright
stayed there. Another architect? Another
architect from Albuquerque. They'd been in an
unsuccessful practice in Albuquerque. And he had
been an assistant to Hal Box, and that's how he
basically got it. Older man, the oldest person on
the faculty just about, so therefore you must know
something because he's of age. And
what then happened was that planning was
considered a program with a shared budget with a
landscape architecture program, architecture
and interior design. The numbers were
misbalanced and all of the undergraduates
selecting a major were advised by architecture
professors. Sounds like A&M. So the architecture
professors steered, in my opinion, steered
students into architecture, the bulk was in
architecture, a very few in number or interior
design, and planning got, did not get their share
in the undergraduate emphasis. As far as the
graduate program went, we were left alone, but we
shared budgets with architecture and planning,
graduate. Our first students were... Is that
still the situation? No, let me give you the
history. Upon applying for accreditation and
working with it, the former dean, Dean Wright,
gave separate budgeting power and autonomy of
program to the planning program. And we obtained
our accreditation, I believe, in 77 or 78,
remarkably quick. because of their support. And
we had four years within the School of
Architecture, and during that time, the planning
faculty, Gene Brooks and a fellow named Barry
Rubin, who was a graduate of the University of
Wisconsin, and some graduate students, of ours
made a political move to get planning out of the
School of Architecture and successfully moved it
out of architecture, succeeded in doing so, and
moved it into the graduate school. Jean Brooks
stayed behind in the School of Architecture as a
teacher of undergraduate urban design Barry
Rubin got a distaste for the university and left to
go to the University of Indiana to teach planning.
So we were under the graduate dean as an
interdisciplinary program for two years with a
sociologist for a department chairman. who had
been appointed by new disciplinary planning
faculty. Who was that? That was Lee Taylor,
L-E-E-T-A-Y-L-O-R.
Lee Taylor's interest was Newtowns as a
sociologist, and at the end of two years,
we clearly did not have faculty representation on
campus on any committees, faculty senate, and all
that. And the dean of the graduate school had us as
the only academic unit under his tutelage. So he
didn't want us. So we were asked to recommend a
place on campus. Vice President for Academic
Affairs went to our faculty, and we agreed with his
recommendation to come into the Institute of
Urban Studies, which we are now. We came in as a
full-fledged department. with accreditation.
We had an accreditation team visit within two
years. At that time, which was about six years
thereafter of me coming here, I again became
chairman of the Department of City and Regional
Planning. At this time it was a department. It was a
department for a full year, and the dean made a
decision that there would be no departments, that
we would be called a program.
So my business cards went from chairman to
director. And there were directors of criminal
justice, director of urban affairs, director of
city and regional planning. That was, we had... We
had a space on the second floor of University Hall
that was just city and regional planning. We were
not integrated with the Institute of Urban
Studies on the fifth floor. We were separate and
distinct from the very high visibility portion of
the building where everyone could see us up at the
stairwell.
And we succeeded to gain in enrollments and we were
doing just fine. The dean made a decision to
integrate us fully with the institute of urban
studies
well you the dean had just asked you to take the job
as chairman and you declined and i declined i had
some research interest and i felt that for my own
professional academic career, it was time for me
to work toward promotion to full professor level.
And I had also some interesting outside
consulting projects directly related to my
university teaching. Comprehensive plans for
communities to do, advisory to different cities
on urban design matters, and some ordinance
writing.
So you continued on as a teaching professor
without administrative responsibilities.
Which is where I am now. And who took over as
department chairman? Well, it appears from what
has been said that the dean of the Institute of
Urban Studies has. There was no department
chairman. Has not been for two years.
What will happen when the APA accreditation team
visits, and they discover you have no department
head.
I would assume that that will be one of the items
that they write up as being a deficiency. I would
think so, too. And do you have control over your
budget currently? No, the dean controls the
budget. When did that change? That changed when I
was no longer when he eliminated all the directors
in the Institute of Urban Studies. And
does he understand the consequences of that?
It had been explained to him.
As far as
the day-to-day operations of the department go,
You mentioned that Arj Anjamani is in charge of the
graduate studies. He is graduate advisor.
Advisor. And what does Bob Wagner do these days?
Bob Wagner teaches in the planning program,
teaches courses in the planning program,
graduate, and he works on the Texas chapter APA
newsletter. And he is working as an editor on the
Texas Planning Magazine, which had been at A&M
University. He's quite busy. And he also does
training courses for lay planning
practitioners. Lay planners, rather. There's
some question in my mind about whether or not that
is in competition with the short course offered by
the Texas chapter.
I think that it is not because it ends up being a
special course for one community that he'll
travel down to. If the vehicle,
the annual short course is a large operation.
where people come from all over the country, all
over the state, rather. I really don't think that
it is in competition. At first I thought that, but
not since I've seen some of his attendance lists. I
think a lot would depend upon the material
covered. It varies. Sometimes he's talking to
them about capital budgets. Sometimes it's
strictly about what planning is and why you should
plan. Other times it's about ordinances. Well, we
certainly don't need to have any paucity of
spreading the word about planning.
The fiscal condition of the University of Texas at
Arlington has been abysmal for the last five years
as far as planning goes and the Institute of Urban
Studies. Faculty raises have not been of any
substance whatsoever. They've been less than
Texas A&M and UT Austin. And the raises, the
faculty raises, have been demoralizing
and insulting.